[Music]
ten effective ways to decrease stomach
bloating bloating is one of the most
bothersome stomach problems
unfortunately it's familiar to
practically everybody in the world isn't
that true people's description of this
symptom may differ but the main concern
is always the same
the feeling of increased pressure in the
abdomen of course such sensations can
appear due to many other stomach issues
for example irritable bowel syndrome
feels almost the same but if your
stomach is particularly unhappy after a
heavy meal or when your diet is far from
ideal its most likely to be bloating if
you have determined that bloating is the
problem you're suffering from here are
10 ways to save yourself from the
annoying pains it brings by the way if
you're interested in other health tips
and recommendations subscribe to our
Channel you will find this and much more
on the bright side of life
[Music]
number 10 eat mindfully you can prevent
bloating by eating more slowly and
choosing smaller portions yes sometimes
it's as easy as that if you pay
attention to what you're eating and try
to be more mindful of your food intake
this might help you enjoy food more this
way your brain will have time to process
what you are putting in your mouth you
will also lower the number of air
bubbles you swallow with your meal these
bubbles are the disastrous cause of
bloating in the first place some of them
are burped back out and that's a normal
process but if you swallow too much air
it collects in your stomach and small
intestine and causes bloating sucking on
a sweet smoking a cigarette or chewing
gum are typical ways that excess air
gets into your body so slow down and
enjoy yourself for a second and you
won't have to suffer after a delicious
dinner this way of eating is called
mindful eating it means that you must
think about the food you're eating as a
way to treat your body well and not
abuse it fundamentally mindful eating is
all about not hurrying savor your food
cook your own meals hydrate your body
don't multitask while eating and most
importantly respect your body and health
[Music]
number nine avoid gas triggering foods
no your mother did not lie when she said
that green stuff is amazingly healthy
kale broccoli and cabbage are indeed the
nutrient-rich and high fiber vegetables
you need to ingest to have a strong
digestive system however these foods are
also rich in raffinose raffinose is a
sugar and it can only be digested if the
bacteria in your stomach fermented its
fermentation produces gas and that's
exactly what causes you to bloat but
don't throw all these vegetables out of
the window Cynthia sass a registered
dietician and contributing editor at
Health magazine promises that if you
start eating high fiber food on a
regular basis you'll have a healthier
digestive system and won't suffer from
bloating so much
well you might still need to go through
the initial period of suffering try to
keep the amount you eat in check
steaming or boiling green vegetables
will shrink the amount of sugar you take
in besides cooking vegetables also
breaks down the fiber they contain as a
result it becomes much easier for your
body to digest them
number eight watch your salt if you keep
getting bloated you might want to watch
your salt intake eating high sodium
foods can slow down your body's ability
to get rid of excess water which might
make you feel like there's a balloon in
your stomach check if you're digesting
the proper amount of salt advised by the
American Heart Association the
recommended limit is 1500 milligrams per
day for most adults that's a bit less
than a teaspoon
oh my 2,300 milligrams or one teaspoon
is the maximum amount you can eat if you
want to stay healthy unfortunately the
average American consumes much more
2,400 milligrams every day this leads to
problems with the heart and blood
pressure and bloating
sadly assault is extremely difficult to
avoid due to its present in most process
and prepackaged foods if you feel that
you've failed your healthy almost no
salt diet drink more water to flush it
out of your body
[Music]
number seven treat yourself to fruit if
you've been naughty with your salty
foods you might want to invest in some
bananas they prevent water from getting
stuck in your body because of the sodium
bananas are full of potassium and they
perfectly regulate salt levels and
therefore reduce bloating meanwhile the
enzymes in a pie is and pineapple
assistant breaking down the proteins in
your system which helps your stomach to
process food efficiently eat these
fruits after a heavy meal to strengthen
your digestive tract and help avoid
constipation and bloating
[Music]
number six drink peppermint and
chamomile teas after a heavy meal you
might want to treat yourself to a cup of
chamomile or peppermint tea both are
known to relax the spasms in your
stomach and ease your pain if you feel
bloated this was proven in research
titled complementary and alternative
medicines in irritable bowel syndrome an
integrated view published in 2014
chamomile tea doesn't only help with
digestion it also relieves acid reflux
as well as discomfort caused by
overeating moreover it can relax and
soothe you so that you don't pay as much
attention to your belly issues as for
peppermint tea its menthol content eases
many kinds of digestive discomfort
including bloating what's more it smell
is completely heavenly you can buy a
chamomile or peppermint tea in
prepackaged teabags or make it yourself
at home if you aren't a fan of herbal
teas try peppermint oil apply it to your
skin but first make sure you're not
allergic to it it will calm your stomach
and reduce bloating 5 take probiotics
hopefully you enjoy probiotic yogurt
here and there if you do you are
literally eating your way out of
bloating with the active cultures as you
probably know there are millions of
different bacteria that exist in your
stomach some of them can cause your
digestive tract to produce excess of gas
probiotics help regulate gas production
and bloating there are several studies
proving this and one of them was
published in the American Journal of
Gastroenterology on may 1st 2000 you can
also take probiotic supplements instead
of yogurt but why not enjoy a healthy
breakfast
if yogurt is too sour for you maybe add
some honey or jam to sweeten up this
morning treat number four avoid sugary
alcohol surprisingly you can find sugary
alcohols in practically all sugar-free
foods and chewing gums
they are meant to sweeten these foods
and are used as sugar alternatives and
they are generally considered safe at
the same time they may cause some
problems for your stomach because they
often reach the bacteria in the lower
part of your digestive tract as a result
the bacteria digest them and produce
excessive gas while doing so you can try
to avoid these sugar alcohols by
enjoying natural sweeteners such as
stevia this is an incredibly sweet plant
and it's been used to sweeten dishes and
drinks since the 16th century it's
extremely low in calories has no effect
on blood glucose which is why people
with diabetes can eat it helps to
control weight regulates blood pressure
and has many more health benefits and
the cherry on top is that there have
been no recorded cases of allergies to
stevia since 2008 another alternative to
adding stevia to your food is to replace
processed desserts with fruits
[Music]
number three try a belly massage if you
overeat and start to feel that
uncomfortable gas rising in your stomach
you may want to lie down and ask someone
to give you an abdominal massage if you
are all alone you can do it yourself
this will help the food move lower in
your stomach and relieve tightness
excessive pressure and bloating there
are many different types of anti bloat
massage try this super simple one put
your right hand on the pit of your
stomach and start to make clockwise
circular movements on your abdomen five
light circles are usually enough number
two do yoga
most people don't enjoy the idea of
moving after a meal but if you have let
yourself go and are now feeling the
first symptoms of gas and acid reflux
don't immediately reach for medicine
just 15 minutes of yoga might be as
useful as a pill and it's much healthier
there are various poses that can assist
you in easing the tightness in your
belly they help your digestive tract
move the food along stimulate your
organs and relieve the stress that
partially causes bloating one of the
most beneficial poses is apanasana or
simply knees hug to your chest to form
this pose lie down
inhale and relax put your hands on your
knees now exhale and pull your knees to
your chest stay this way for about 10
breaths and then release your knees
number one hydrate your body and of
course never forget to hydrate your body
yes water is actually a solution to a
lot of the health issues you might
experience and one of them is bloating
your daily water intake is supposed to
be around eight glasses and this does
not include all the other fluids you
drink remember that when drinking a lot
of water you need to consider your
health for example if you have kidney
problems drinking too much water may
lead to serious problems in any case if
your health allows it stay hydrated your
body will have all the power it needs to
fight bloating by itself if you have
used any of the methods we've mentioned
to fight bloating hit the like button do
the same if you found the information in
this video useful for you or your family
and friends and if you know any other
way to calm down an upset stomach please
tell us in the comments below
[Music]
you